docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/index.md, before:

---
title: "Modeling your data with dbt"
date: "2022-10-05"
sidebar_position: 10
---

```mdx-code-block
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
```

[dbt](https://docs.getdbt.com/) enables analytics engineers to transform data in their warehouses by simply writing select statements. 

To setup dbt, Snowplow open source users can start with the [dbt User Guide](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/getting-started) and then we have prepared some [introduction videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1kd6BJhC4BE) for working with the Snowplow dbt packages.

For Snowplow BDP customers, dbt projects can be configured and scheduled in the console meaning you can [get started](/docs/modeling-your-data/running-data-models-via-snowplow-bdp/dbt/index.md) running dbt models alongside your Snowplow pipelines.


# Snowplow dbt Packages

There are 3 core snowplow dbt packages:
-  [Snowplow Web](/docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/dbt-web-data-model/index.md) ([dbt model docs](https://snowplow.github.io/dbt-snowplow-web/#!/overview/snowplow_web))
-  [Snowplow Mobile](/docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/dbt-mobile-data-model/index.md) ([dbt model docs](https://snowplow.github.io/dbt-snowplow-mobile/#!/overview/snowplow_mobile))
-  [Snowplow Media Player](/docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/dbt-media-player-data-model/index.md) ([dbt model docs](https://snowplow.github.io/dbt-snowplow-media-player/#!/overview/snowplow_media_player))

_The Snowplow Media Player package is designed to be used with the Snowplow Web package and not as a standalone package._

Each package comes with a set of standard models to take your [Snowplow tracker data](/docs/collecting-data/collecting-from-own-applications/index.md) and produce tables aggregated to levels such as Users, Sessions, and Page Views. You can also add your own models on top, see the page on [custom modules](/docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/dbt-custom-models/index.md) for more information on how to do this.

The latest versions of all packages support BigQuery, Databricks, Postgres, Redshift, and Snowflake warehouses.


<Tabs groupId="dbt-packages">
<TabItem value="web" label="Snowplow Web" default>

| snowplow-web version | dbt versions        | BigQuery  | Databricks  | Redshift  | Snowflake  | Postgres  |
| -------------------- | ------------------- | --------- | ----------- | --------- | ---------- | --------- |
| 0.9.2                | >=1.0.0 to <2.0.0   | ✅        | ✅          | ✅        | ✅         | ✅        |
| 0.5.1                | >=0.20.0 to <1.0.0  | ✅        | ❌          | ✅        | ✅         | ✅        |
| 0.4.1                | >=0.18.0 to <0.20.0 | ✅        | ❌          | ✅        | ✅         | ❌        |
| 0.4.1                | >=0.19.0 to <0.20.0 | ❌        | ❌          | ❌        | ❌         | ✅        |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="mobile" label="Snowplow Mobile">

| snowplow-mobile version | dbt versions       | BigQuery  | Databricks  | Redshift  | Snowflake  | Postgres  |
| ----------------------- | ------------------ | --------- | ----------- | --------- | ---------- | --------- |
| 0.5.4                   | >=1.0.0 to <2.0.0  | ✅        | ✅          | ✅        | ✅         | ✅        |
| 0.2.0                   | >=0.20.0 to <1.0.0 | ✅        | ❌          | ✅        | ✅         | ✅        |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="media" label="Snowplow Media Player">

| snowplow-media-player version | snowplow-web version | dbt versions       | BigQuery  | Databricks  | Redshift  | Snowflake  | Postgres  |
| ----------------------------- | -------------------- | ------------------ | --------- | ----------- | --------- | ---------- | --------- |
| 0.3.1                         | >=0.9.0 to <0.10.0   | >=1.0.0 to <2.0.0  | ✅        | ✅          | ✅        | ✅         | ✅        |
| 0.1.0                         | >=0.6.0 to <0.7.0    | >=0.20.0 to <1.1.0 | ❌        | ❌          | ✅        | ❌         | ✅        |

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

------

Commit message:

Add docs for splitting-events model

docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/index.md, after:

---
title: "Modeling your data with dbt"
date: "2022-10-05"
sidebar_position: 10
---

```mdx-code-block
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
```

[dbt](https://docs.getdbt.com/) enables analytics engineers to transform data in their warehouses by simply writing select statements. 

To setup dbt, Snowplow open source users can start with the [dbt User Guide](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/getting-started) and then we have prepared some [introduction videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1kd6BJhC4BE) for working with the Snowplow dbt packages.

For Snowplow BDP customers, dbt projects can be configured and scheduled in the console meaning you can [get started](/docs/modeling-your-data/running-data-models-via-snowplow-bdp/dbt/index.md) running dbt models alongside your Snowplow pipelines.


# Snowplow dbt Packages

There are 3 core snowplow dbt packages:
-  [Snowplow Web](/docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/dbt-web-data-model/index.md) ([dbt model docs](https://snowplow.github.io/dbt-snowplow-web/#!/overview/snowplow_web))
-  [Snowplow Mobile](/docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/dbt-mobile-data-model/index.md) ([dbt model docs](https://snowplow.github.io/dbt-snowplow-mobile/#!/overview/snowplow_mobile))
-  [Snowplow Media Player](/docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/dbt-media-player-data-model/index.md) ([dbt model docs](https://snowplow.github.io/dbt-snowplow-media-player/#!/overview/snowplow_media_player))

_The Snowplow Media Player package is designed to be used with the Snowplow Web package and not as a standalone package._

Each package comes with a set of standard models to take your [Snowplow tracker data](/docs/collecting-data/collecting-from-own-applications/index.md) and produce tables aggregated to levels such as Users, Sessions, and Page Views. You can also add your own models on top, see the page on [custom modules](/docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/dbt-custom-models/index.md) for more information on how to do this.

In addition there is an [Event Splitting](docs/modeling-your-data/modeling-your-data-with-dbt/dbt-event-splitting-model/index.md) package that makes it easy for you to build models that transform your events data into a different structure that may be better suited for downstream consumers.

The latest versions of all packages support BigQuery, Databricks, Postgres, Redshift, and Snowflake warehouses, except for the Event Splitting package.


<Tabs groupId="dbt-packages">
<TabItem value="web" label="Snowplow Web" default>

| snowplow-web version | dbt versions        | BigQuery  | Databricks  | Redshift  | Snowflake  | Postgres  |
| -------------------- | ------------------- | --------- | ----------- | --------- | ---------- | --------- |
| 0.9.2                | >=1.0.0 to <2.0.0   | ✅        | ✅           | ✅        | ✅         | ✅         |
| 0.5.1                | >=0.20.0 to <1.0.0  | ✅        | ❌           | ✅        | ✅         | ✅         |
| 0.4.1                | >=0.18.0 to <0.20.0 | ✅        | ❌           | ✅        | ✅         | ❌         |
| 0.4.1                | >=0.19.0 to <0.20.0 | ❌        | ❌           | ❌        | ❌         | ✅         |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="mobile" label="Snowplow Mobile">

| snowplow-mobile version | dbt versions       | BigQuery  | Databricks  | Redshift  | Snowflake  | Postgres  |
| ----------------------- | ------------------ | --------- | ----------- | --------- | ---------- | --------- |
| 0.5.4                   | >=1.0.0 to <2.0.0  | ✅         | ✅          | ✅        | ✅          | ✅        |
| 0.2.0                   | >=0.20.0 to <1.0.0 | ✅         | ❌          | ✅        | ✅          | ✅        |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="media" label="Snowplow Media Player">

| snowplow-media-player version | snowplow-web version | dbt versions       | BigQuery | Databricks | Redshift | Snowflake | Postgres |
| ----------------------------- | -------------------- | ------------------ | -------- | ---------- | -------- | --------- | -------- |
| 0.3.1                         | >=0.9.0 to <0.10.0   | >=1.0.0 to <2.0.0  | ✅       | ✅          | ✅       | ✅        | ✅        |
| 0.1.0                         | >=0.6.0 to <0.7.0    | >=0.20.0 to <1.1.0 | ❌       | ❌          | ✅       | ❌        | ✅        |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="split" label="Snowplow Event Splitting">

| snowplow-event-splitting version | snowplow-web version | dbt versions      | BigQuery | Databricks | Redshift | Snowflake | Postgres |
| ----------------------------- | -------------------- | ----------------- | -------- | ---------- | -------- | --------- | -------- |
| 0.1.0                         | >=0.9.0 to <1.0.0    | >=1.0.0 to <2.0.0 | ✅        | ✅        | ❌        | ✅        | ❌        |

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
